Explaining my Rating System

Though my scores of 100+ might seem like just a gimmick - I believe that my rating system a claim to legitimacy - inspired by another numeric rating system in my life. 

If you've spent much time reading through my album reviews, you'll likely have noticed a track with a rating above 100 - perhaps even as high as 130. Though unconventional, I believe my rating system offers benefits more than just a differentiating gimmick. Moreover, I believe that it has a claim to legitimacy - inspired by another numeric rating system in my life. In this post, I'll explain my rating system, and draw parallels between bouldering grades and my approach to grading songs.

In rock climbing, the current hardest grade of boulders is V17 - Burden of Dreams, Return of the Sleepwalker,  Alphane, etc. However - there was a time in my life where there was no V17 boulders. As climbers have gotten stronger, climbing shoes have gotten more advanced, and the sport as a whole move forward, boulders harder than ever before are being sent. Similarly, there was a time in my life I would not give any existing song a 130. Much like climbing, music is always evolving, and modern music - though part of the same long-running cultural tapestry - is better than ever before. Though this analogy may seem spurious, I think it's coherent, as the long-running evolution, individual subjectivity, and numeric incrementing all run parallel. No one's questioning the fact that Burden of Dreams is a V17/9a boulder, thus, no one ought to question that Heaven Surrounds Us like a Hood is a 130.

Music and climbing have both been around a long time - far longer than we've been able to conceptualize them. To an extent, they are both in our nature. Every culture makes music, and it seems that rhythm is fundamentally a part of how we understand language and communication. Climbing - albeit trees, not rocks - is so fundamental even proto-humans were doing it. Over time, we've gotten better at both of these things. There's a lot of good classical music - but there's a reason why almost everyone is listening to more modern music. I'd argue, it's just better. Not only due to the advancements in technology, but also because of the growing cultural context. As we have a long-running history of music to draw on, new music gets better because of it. In the same way, Shawn Raboutou draws on the experience of his parents, friends, and a whole history of crushers projecting hard. As time progresses, we get better at making music, as we do better at climbing insane rocks, and thus, it's only natural that we need a new, biggest number to characterize these things. In an interview regarding the FA of Burden of Dreams, the first V17 boulder, Nalle Hukkataival said that it'd do more damage to the sport to call Burden a V16. In the same way, I'd be doing a disservice to my integrity as a music reviewer to cram down what I believe are truly my pinnacle tracks to be at the same number as other fantastic ones.

The quality of music, and the difficulty of a boulder are similar in another way - they're subjective. For me, there are probably V7 slab climbs much harder than any V9 I've completed on the kilter board. Though that might just be a testament to my lack of skill on slab - it does ultimately get to the point of the issue, that boulder grading and music rating are consensus activities. Just as I assess the difficulty of a climb, I rate a song. For a boulder, I assess how much raw power it took, the precision required, the difficulty of individual positions, the length of the climb, etc. For a song, I assess how much I plainly enjoy listening to it, how interesting it is, how well it's mixed and composed, etc. In a fundamental way, these are the same process: I engage with the experience, reflect on it, assess the various aspects of it, and assign it a number based on that whole reflective process.

Speaking of numbers - you might say, then, just assign 10 to the top tier of songs, and then everything else moves down. In my opinion, that has two pitfalls which makes it a worse system. For one - I don't think a comprehensive retroactive adjustment is functional. At the time of writing, I believe Heaven Surrounds Us like a Hood by Yves Tumor to be the best song I've ever heard. When a new song that's better comes out, I'd have to go adjust its rating down. However, then, I'd have to go adjust the rating down for inertia status, and Unfold, and Spikes, and so on. A fully relative rating system with an upper limit would require constant adjustments as I grow the corpus of music that I've reviewed. The second pitfall is that I feel as if some songs deserve a 'ten'. It's not fully rationalized, yes, but it is true to my internal experience. There are many songs I can point to, many of which I'd call 'one of my favorite songs', that just deserve a 10/10. However, I can also point out songs that are meaningfully better than songs on that list, and thus, a 105 must exist. That process repeats and has left me with 130 being the top rating. Under this system, I don't have to retroactively reduce the rating of every other album, nor do I have to deny 100s to the songs I think deserve them. As an emergent consequence of these two principles, I've ended up with a system where I'm giving songs 110s, 120s, and even a 130 out of 100. As my system evolves, I'm committed to integrity as a reviewer, even without an upper limit for the scores. Though no defined upper limit may present challenges for comparability, the permissive nature of this system allows me to express my deep love for what I really believe to be peak. 

Though yes, this system is probably a bit complex, difficult to communicate to others, and somewhat inaccessible, that's pretty fitting for my music taste and reviews. I'd say the same thing about many albums that I love, arguing that complexity is an inevitable consequence of deep engagement. It's an odd system, but it's my system. I hope with this additional context established, that you'll find my reviews a little more insightful and a little less obtuse.
