At my best, I like to analyze music not for its sound, not for its lyrical content, nor even the elements that compose it. Though I love to talk about breathy vocals, textured bass, and a whole variety of synths, I think my best musical analysis is of the second-order qualities of songs and albums. For example - songs feeling conceptually similar - despite being wildly different genres; songs matching certain vibes or situations; or qualities in songs that are on the edges of your comprehensions - ones that take a real effort to hammer out into being explainable. Here - I hope to do that final thing, explaining a concept I've been mulling for a while.

In the summer of 2023 - I had many an afternoon where my friends would come over and we'd cook together. Of course, we had music on, as any set of recreational chefs would. A few times, between the joking "Yes chefs" and clanging of pots and pans, you might have heard Intro by the xx. One of the most iconic indie hits, loved for its understated yet compelling feel. It really stuck with me, and over time, I came to figure out why. I think of Intro to be obvious, inevitable, almost mandatory - as if it is just an emergent consequence of music, something waiting to be discovered, rather than something that is decided upon or composed consciously. In a way, that's really a beautiful thing, and something that has me coming back to this track. 

Amelie by Gracie Abrams also feels the same way. It feels like this story of a girl just tearing you up without even meaning to is universal, and would be put into song at some point. It has this sense of expansive minimalism - being deeply compelling and rich despite its simple composition. This song would exist in every timeline, and despite it's inevitability, it's beautiful. This quality of being so paradigmatic for our experiences enhances the track's appeal to this universal experience. There cannot be a world like ours in which there's a folksy singer-songwriter who didn't have to sing about how she 'met a girl once'. 

Finally - Limerence, by Yves Tumor. In my opinion, this is the peak of ambient music. The execution is absolutely perfect, and the themes are basically universal. As I wrote in my review of the track: "glimpses of near-universal experiences hear - love, peace, obsession, rain, autumn - and with that, someone had to make a song like this." In a world with autumn, love, rain, and music - Limerence simply must exist, in some form. The version of it that we got is absolutely beautiful, and feels so essential. I couldn't imagine it not existing.

On the other hand, there are some songs that feel exactly the opposite. Some songs are so complex, so inspired, so genius, that I feel like I couldn't recreate them if I had a million years. Despite common tools of vocals and instruments, an existing library of samples, and modern tooling - they're so singular that I am left in awe of the genius it must take to create them. This too, creates beautiful songs. 

If Intro or Amelie would exist in every timeline, then Spikes by Death Grips feels like it's so unique to ours. One of the best songs of all time, on one of the best records, by one of the most eccentric, innovative, and deeply unique bands. Though the whole record is ultimately completely singular - Spikes is the most genius. This is exemplified by one moment on the song that still has me in awe. Towards the end of the last verse - the line 'noise of nomads on sapphire *spice*' - and the 'spice' has the 'spikes spikes spikes' from the chorus. There's no existing trope, genre context, or cultural pattern this is borrowing from - it is a purely unique decision that enhances the song drastically, and there's some beauty in that. 

Another song that's completely singular, nearly isolated from any ongoing context is, and yes, this is the name: "re: re: i made a snail pancake". I believe originally, this song is a remix of a remix of a matchup - although the earlier pieces of that throughline are lost to time as far as I'm aware. Over a decade old, and there's still nothing that sounds perfectly like this song does. In my view, the sheer uniqueness of this track descends from two principles - its distance from the source material, and it being far ahead of its time. By being a remix, of a remix, of a mashup, this song makes itself unlikely. Even in a sheerly binary sense - the original mashup could have just as easily not been made, or in a form that made it unsuitable to be remixed. Similarly, the artist could have chose not to continue the conversation by remixing the remix. At each step, the chance that this song exists, as it does now, is lowered. Moreover, this song feels so far ahead of it's time. The deeply digital and choppy nature fits in much more today than it did over a decade ago. Yes - Purity Ring and Crystal Castles existed in 2012 - but both are characterized by real vocals accompanying their innovative sound. All this to say - this song is excellent - and in addition to it's excellence - we get the privilege of experiencing it's rarity. 

I think that remixes and remakes are another avenue for these exceptional songs. For me, the pinnacle of this is Sewerslvt's remake of Jackie by Yves Tumor - another song I have already talked about at length. In short - the synergy of these two artists' artistic vision and the fusion of their respective sounds results in one of the best songs of all time, plain and simple. It is the combined genius of each artist, multiplying both the quality and the rarity of the ultimate result. I could list remixes that I love all day - but instead - an exercise for the reader. Go to your Liked Songs, Library, or large music archive of choice - and go Ctrl+F "remix". I think you'll be surprised by the result.  I hope that you'll appreciate the notion that each is a branch on the tree of possible outcomes, and how lucky we are to live in a world full of these branches that result in great songs at their leaves.

From the most obvious, to the most unique - there's beauty in a great song. At the most obvious - songs feel essential, natural, like a wonder of the world, just waiting to be discovered. At the most unique - songs will leave you in awe of their genius idiosyncrasies and the sheer talent and vision required to create them. In both cases - the best tracks make me feel lucky to be a music fan. I hope that the next time you review your favorite songs, throw on a new album, or take a recommendation from a friend, you'll consider this notion of Inevitability and Obviousness. As always - happy listening!