On Authenticity

From Phoebe Bridgers to bro country: what separates genuine artistry from manufactured relatability 

I've always felt a deep tie to authenticity. In all aspects of life, I want things that are real. Maybe it's not wanting to be lied to, maybe it's the satisfaction of being trusted with the truth. Regardless, I am unendingly drawn towards things that are genuine - even if they're imperfect. I always want only what's real, regardless of what that entails. Conversely, I really don't like anything that feels performative, fake, or phony. Everyone has thousands of hours spent being themselves, but much less being someone else. It's foolish to try to be anything but authentic. This of course, applies to music, in both directions. I love and praise visceral authenticity in music, and deeply despise when artists exude a faux authenticity. I heavily value forming an emotional connection with songs, a process that's easy with a genuine experience, but nearly impossible with a facade. A well-told true story drastically improves a song, and conversely, pretending to tell a true story often reveals the soulless, greedy intentions - ruining songs in the process. The essence of authenticity is an artist conveying their personal experiences, willing to be vulnerable, in the pursuit of artistic integrity over profit. In this essay, I argue that this authenticity is a key facet of many incredible songs, and a marked failure of many songs that don't have it. 

Many strong examples of this rely on emotional authenticity - where artists effectively convey a raw, vulnerable, authentic experience through their songs. I listen to a lot of singer-songwriter, 'sad girl' bedroom pop - and I think this is one of the best features of that genre. On White Flag, from Clairo's *Immunity*, we hear the story of surrendering to the need to move on, no matter how much you might not want to. Details of her youth, the feeling that this song is to someone specific, and the pacing of the instrumental all contribute well. On Fault Line, from Gracie Abrams' *Good Riddance*: the vocals are faint, downtrodden, almost confessional in their delivery, which strengthens their very raw and genuine feel. A complicated, painful breakup would obviously hurt to broadcast to the world, and this vulnerability that resonates with listeners is essential to the song's quality. Most crushing of all is Funeral, by Phoebe Bridgers, from Stranger in the Alps. An absolutely heartrending true story of performing at a funeral - 'when I think too much about it, I can't breathe'. Everyone's been to a funeral, and can relate to being so overwhelmed with grief. Although the song is deeply sad - there's a beauty in the catharsis, and that the song serves as a canvas for the artist and listeners alike to share in the processing of tough experiences and emotions. This whole process can only occur with a pure, genuine, vulnerability, and there's a nobility in the shared authenticity which I appreciate deeply. Although I'm very lucky to not relate to many of the sad songs I listen to - I hold a respect and reverence for them, and that stems fundamentally from the honest story that they tell.

In another sense, there's a sense of authenticity when artists execute precisely on their vision: in an artist's early work that we see a true authentic expression - untainted by a distasteful avarice that comes with success and fame. You could easily make the argument for the artists above - Claire Cottrill's rawest track is Bubble Gum, before the explosive success of Immunity. Similarly, for Gracie, it feels as if deeper truths are present on the most visceral moments of Good Riddance and This Is What It Feels Like than on The Secret of Us. That said - it's not at all limited to sad songs. For example, The Weekend - now one of the biggest artists, and the first to surpass 100M monthly listeners on Spotify, with a decade-plus of alt-R&B successes. In my opinion, House of Balloons is still his best work - despite being his debut. There's a sense of raw truth that makes the mixtape much more compelling than his later works for me. Yes, it might be a bit rougher around the edges, but I'd rather it be raw than sanitized. That's not to say that commercial success and authenticity are mutually exclusive: the aforementioned Phoebe Bridgers' 2020 album *Punisher* is immensely successful, retaining the integrity and vision of *Stranger in the Alps*. Artists too often lose the sense for resonating with their audience as they achieve major success, and it's refreshing to see when they manage to retain it.

I have praised emotional vulnerability, and authentic expression of a personal experience - both of which aid the listener in connecting with the song. One clear example that has both of these traits is one of my favorite songs of all time - Points, by Pearson and Lily Potter. Points is early work from Lily Potter, known now for the viral 'Oblivion', and Pearson, who went on to be half of Meridian. Both successful in their own right, but at the time of this release, it was clear that this song was made as a reflection of life, not of greed. It doesn't feel like it was made chasing a check, engineered for mass market appeal, or to conform to what's popular. Instead, it feels wholly and utterly authentic, a true unadulterated transmission of emotional experience from artist to listener. Moreover, I find this particular experience to resonate with me quite well. The lyrics convey a bittersweet distance: "Two different lives, on parallel lines // Let's do what's right, and break ties". Dwelling on the distance, she continues: "What would I tell you? That I had missed you?" Beyond the enjoyable sound and good writing, this is a perfect articulation of my own lived experience. Knowing that it reflects the experiences of both myself and the artist, I connect on a much deeper level with not only this song, but her whole discography. This is the power of authentic songwriting: creating lasting connections between artist and listener through shared experiences.

This authenticity I praise stands in stark contrast to much of what infects the current music landscape: music that pretends to be authentic. In my opinion, this is clearest in modern country music, focused much more on profits and mass appeal than artistic integrity and vision. There's a fundamental disconnect between this trend of 'bro country' and what I stand for as a critic - I have no appetite for, interest in, nor any other positive feelings towards this overall trend that's lasted for years now. Although I'm not a fan of the general disposition of country music - 'three chords and the truth' - even that, now, is failing. We've lost the truth part - and the whole genre has become a noxious simulacrum of what used to be a salt-of-the-earth genre. Despite songs being wholly derived, they claim a sort of faux authenticity which I find to be truly insufferable. It's been distilled into a hollow concept of what it means to be 'country' - categorized now by cheap beer, lifted trucks, cowboy boots, dirt roads, et cetera. Despite this reduction down to imagery that'll sell, artists still present themselves as no different than the everyman: a hard-working American, with a 9 to 5, decades-old truck, and hometown bar.

To illustrate this contrast, consider a different aesthetic, that of Playboi Carti, Ken Carson, Destroy Lonely, of the Opium rap collective. Instead of lifted trucks with a chevy V8, it's supercharged black benzes - and it's not a Carhartt jacket, it's a Moncler puffer - equal facades of an identity driven by brands and products - yet only one aesthetic sells itself on being relatable. Take, for example, 'Isn't She Country', where Locash croons about how "she like my Chevy // Beer in the yeti". Distasteful, reductive imagery, particularly from the members who were driving Porsches by the time they were on the radio. It's glaringly hypocritical to sing about Chevrolet trucks when your band has multiple press releases about buying custom Mustangs. In contrast, on 'Me and My Kup', Ken Carson raps about cars, a dozen different brands, spending racks to have a girl dripped down in designer clothes. Despite being ignorant, vain, myopic, and over-the-top - it doesn't claim not to be, and for that, I appreciate it. I'd much rather hear Ken Carson rap about buying an Aventador SVJ because he 'like how the doors go up' than a millionaire in metropolitan Tennessee croon about blue jeans and small towns. Plainly, I prefer honest vanity to manufactured relatability every time.

There's a parallel, but equally pernicious strain of faux Americana that is increasingly pervasive and devoid of soul. Think Benson Boone - rollerblades, fireworks, blue jeans, movie theaters' - tropes that are straight from the Trite and Hackneyed store (much like his percussion). I'm not sure I can stand to hear another song about cherry cola and drive-in movies. It feels as if it's auditory wallpaper - not to be engaged with, analyzed, or explored further, simply sound to paper over the discomfort of silence. Not to say that some of this imagery can't be used to great effect; there are many singer-songwriter, folk, or even eponymously labeled 'americana' artists: Adrianne Lenker, Phoebe Bridgers - even underscores on Wallsocket. The difference, of course, is authenticity. Artists making music from the soul get at some of these ideas because they are based in their experiences. On Adrianne Lenker's Bright Future, we get evocative imagery of farmhouse windowsills, not because that's an idea that'll sell, but because it is a visceral component of a memory. Similarly, on Stranger in the Alps, we get just as much about campfires and backyard barbecues as we do about suffocation and suicide pacts, with just as much heart and soul as any other album. It's not that the images and ideas are fundamentally bad - it is instead that they are abused, wrung out like a sponge, left as a pulp to make lyrical grey gak. To make my point directly: it is not the themes or tropes, but the authenticity that separates the dreck from the art. To a discerning listener, it is obvious whether the story being told is a reflection of truth or of avarice. 

In closing - we're seeing a lot of soulless, profit-driven, derived music being produced in pursuit of wealth. This lack of artistic integrity frustrates me as a critic and a discerning listener. It not only seems to create worse art, but it is plainly offensive to me, and I wish this was on the decline. Decades ago, we had payola, paid radio play - regardless of what people wanted to hear. In more recent history, with the advent of the smartphone, we got songs optimized for top spots on a primitive iTunes leaderboard. Now, we have this - the distillation of good genres into their most basic, marketable, profitable forms - losing the true artistry along the way. If there's any call to action to make here, it's no different than any of my other essays or reviews: engage critically with what you listen to. As listeners, we ought to seek out music that's rich, engaging, and moves us. That search is drastically more rewarding than simply accepting what the industry thinks will sell.