On Dariacore

A journey with my favorite dariacore tracks - from appreciating ubiquitous samples, to seeing something more?

Dariacore is a niche genre, pioneered by Jane Remover just a handful of years ago, characterized by combining dense electronic instrumentation with endless sample flips. Although it can be difficult to navigate the web of samples, this effortful engagement results in a closer relationship with the tracks and the artists behind them. Of course, sampling is always part of an ongoing cultural conversation - dredging deep cuts, refreshing takes on old beats, cross-pollinating genres, or chopping vocals into something new entirely. Dariacore feels entirely different. Instead of one main sample, there are many, densely layered and cut together - often niche, modern, and self-referential. Where Madlib might reach for Cortex's eccentric cuts from the 70s, dariacore producers are grabbing a popular song from just a few months ago, reminding you of a track from last week's Discover Weekly, or even just re-recycling homeswitcher. These samples are amplified by, and even become the rich electronic production: they're enveloped by incredible drops; synced to the percussion, or chopped into the melody - transforming the array of samples far beyond just a playlist show-and-tell. In this essay, I'll trace my own journey with my favorite dariacore tracks - from appreciating ubiquitous samples, to seeing perfect silhouettes of my own music taste.

The accessible entry point for dariacore is "leroy" ([c0ncernn](https://soundcloud.com/c0ncernn)), one of Jane Remover's many aliases. Through the three dariacore EPs, she really created the blueprint for this movement of ultra-dense, pitch-shifted, chopped samples over rapid drums. Even at its most accessible, this demonstrates how the sample use can be compelling - as it manages to make The Chainsmokers' "#SELFIE" sound good - I can't believe I'm hooked by "How about, 'living with my bitches, #live". Chopping the [Heads Will Roll](https://open.spotify.com/track/18oWEPapjNt32E6sCM6VLb?si=d9f309274a5a43a8) sample into a hook, bookended by the staple [siren sample](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jrtP8MhUBjU) and punctuated by PinkPantheress' iconic [Hey!](https://youtu.be/6tPTrgGptU0?si=5iJTiriYZh_QllZL&t=71), this track is a distillation of everything that dariacore obviously exudes. I think that the familiar nature of these samples is a great gateway into the genre - Heads Will Roll is truly ubiquitous, and for a time, The Chainsmokers were as well. All the better that these sources are chopped to pieces, matched by percussion, and underscored by distorted bass. Like for many others, this track was my first exposure to the genre, and the combination of engaging beat with accessible samples was more than enough to keep my attention.

What moves dariacore from playlist show-and-tell to curation as an art is the quality of the underlying production. Consider Synoxa's [why even bother making real music](https://open.spotify.com/track/42TBZkDGQxpJgl0S9VLwVd?si=fedaf30ea394488b) - which would be a great song sample-free. It opens on a cold, analog piano line, audibly detailed with the mechanics of the piano: the thud as the keys actuate; the clicks as they rise back up, sliding against one another. The real driver of my enjoyment is the drop, with its digital, driving melody over four-on-the-floor kicks, interspersed with samples and airy risers. What brings this track - and dariacore tracks in general - from competent electronic tracks to unforgettable ones is the blending with the samples. Cherry-picking the best of each track it borrows from, the source media is recontextualized. Taking from [CLEARED](https://open.spotify.com/track/54L7uacUGRkvoLokUlNWfH?si=b20800cee2454703) and [Be Nice 2 Me](https://open.spotify.com/track/2TmqHjg7uhizGndzXQdFuf?si=fb14019b395a46af) to transition from piano to synth, and using Ice Spice's [Munch](https://open.spotify.com/track/1jOgJN75btuUONIdf57vHz?si=45a1d20064ff4619) to lead into the drop - Synoxa entwines the samples with the flawless arrangement. If I wanted to see my own taste reflected back at me, I'd just go look at my Spotify Wrapped. Instead, it's this synthesis work, weaving otherwise completely unrelated tracks into this incredible production that gets at why the genre is so special.

Beyond ubiquitous samples, dariacore embodies cultural touchpoints that slice narrower and narrower groups. Often, this is about what's current: where hip hop often waits decades to re-tread jazz standards, dariacore waits minutes. For example, three's [track 3](https://open.spotify.com/track/7hrEw0YtmyO3TPR7aeGIya?si=1020bf3a98154f96), sampling 2hollis' [jeans](https://open.spotify.com/track/6C2nVSSeXNqfoY8t6tliZ4?si=38651ff56d35440a). It's no secret that I'm a 2hollis fan - and I'm happy to see his work borrowed from here - even while he's still making new music. You'd have to wait 40 years to see After Laughter become JPEGMAFIA's [Exmilitary](https://open.spotify.com/track/1ZzSRXy86bhxjqwNjSZnko?si=1dd85769424748b1). It's not even two full years between jeans and track 3. Jane sampled So What all over Revengeseekerz - before So What was released! To bet on a retroactive recognition of the stems is more than just forward-thinking, it gets at a deeper relationship between artist and listener. Consider [ta1lsd0ll - ta1lsd003](https://open.spotify.com/track/4yKLoYwxHQ33y0O3dv24JZ?si=fbcd1197c345497a), where beyond the quality melodies and curated samples, I start to see myself in these songs. It moves from a general cultural consciousness - sampling music that's still popular - to a shared consciousness, where I resonate with what the art indicates about the artist. Even the artist name, "ta1lsd0ll", is the l33t-speak version of a creepypasta I was obsessed with when I was just a kid with too much time on the internet. I'm sure that the artist is the same way. I see it in their curative taste - between Uzi's [Sauce It Up](https://open.spotify.com/track/1uL78kFWxhz3umTMWJu8n5?si=7249d2c470ea4dcc), SEBii's [Play Poker](https://open.spotify.com/track/4HwClUHxzTmCgKkfUFPfxU?si=668c2bbc92154f1f), and [All The Things She Said](https://open.spotify.com/track/4bJygwUKrRgq1stlNXcgMg?si=00af41d6326a4ce7). An eccentric blend of a rap hit, guilty pleasure track, and an early 2000s Russian pop hit that broke containment, but somehow I love all three. It's more than just that this combination, chopped and looped over sizzling hi-hats and searing top melody, fits my taste perfectly. I think that, if I had played with Garage Band instead of Scratch as a kid, I would have ended up making something just like this.

Where this culminates for me is with [tictacto - 2012 was a different era](https://open.spotify.com/track/6uKHdG4hpW1dsIBorFKoyN?si=cb6093644fa847). If the leroy track was made for everyone, this one feels like it was made just for me: an impossible collage of samples that I somehow follow. It opens mixing Owl City's [When Can I See You Again?](https://open.spotify.com/track/5ZkAx8zjLiSs1nMmBwJoZS?si=2807101b616d438b) over Porter Robinson's [Musician](https://open.spotify.com/track/7k6jxIMMAcXjHnbbHmGC9H?si=a55ea11be50348b6) and Virtual Riot's [Energy Drink](https://open.spotify.com/track/3507Teuh1vj1L5eMAJj80O?si=db7fc2d7fcf64716). I can only imagine that the artist is someone exactly like me: coming of age with Owl City on the Radio, Virtual Riot in my overly-bassy cheap wired earbuds, comforted by Porter's Nurture during the pandemic. It's not just that these samples sound amazing together - it's that I see myself, and my history of listening to music in them. For example - it took me weeks of searching to latch onto the panning break in this song. Matching the "but - now - I've" in the left-right-left channel, at exactly 30 seconds, is a sample I knew I had heard before. It is, of all things, Kyary Pamyu Pamyu's [PONPONPON](https://open.spotify.com/track/1c6C2wg7PRbPBRRUaEvheC?si=4e58ef180a494ac1). The same left-right-left, panning break. With this, I am again part of the in-group, having heard PONPONPON in memes for over a decade. This is probably the most gripping of the examples here - not just catching the references, but seeing my reflection in the confluence that is all of them combined. This quadruple-venn-diagram of samples builds a mirror where, atop an amazing electronic track, I see myself in the curative work.

Although the genre is non-trivial to engage with, that's why it's so compelling to me. These songs and their creators build a sense of community through their sampling and curation: songs that are so brazenly open about their DNA, unabashed representations of the tastes of their creators. As curation becomes the medium of expression; as samples become the percussion, lyrics, and melody, dariacore cements itself as a cornerstone of my taste. As I look across the songs here, in the samples paired with world-class production, I see glimpses of music I listened to as a kid, other songs I currently love, and some of my favorite albums.
