Predilections - Vocal Breathiness and Whisper

My journey with coming to understand my love for certain types of vocals, explained.

Of all of the ideas, elements, tropes, or motifs that could get me to instantly enjoy a song, close mic'd, breathy, almost whispered vocals is probably the strongest. Consistently, irrespective of the quality of the instrumentation, production, and lyricism, I still find myself drawn to whispery vocals. Of course, when combined with quality instrumentals, intriguing production, and moving lyrics, whispered vocals makes for some incredible tracks, but either way, I'm consistently captivated by this style of vocals. Between enriching the overall sound and texture, enhancing vulnerability, intimacy, and closeness, and articulating the details of the vocals better - I really do think they make for better songs. Primarily, there are three artists that drive my enthusiasm for and fascination with breathy vocals - Imogen Heap, Clairo, and Gracie Abrams, and I'll share a bit about my experience and journey with each.

Imogen Heap, and particularly her 2005 record Speak for Yourself is a monumental, high-quality, widely inspiring album that I hold in extremely high regard. It has enjoyed a long life in the general audiophile consciousness, due to its sound being far ahead of its time, and being sampled again and again. Some of the most exceptional and enjoyable tracks of all time owe their cornerstone samples to this album. To this end, there are three obvious highlights. The most commonly known to the general populace is Hide and Seek, thanks to Whatcha Say (2009) by Jason Derulo. Although that song wouldn't exactly get a strong rating from me, the sampling work would, as it samples one of the most compelling vocal moments on any song. In 2013, [a video slowing the song down to 1/8th speed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9jw27h74o2k) came out, and young me was so fascinated by it. Though I don't think I could identify what made it so good at the time, I went back to this video over and over, as the way that the simple layering of her voice sounded like many different instruments was so intriguing. The whole song really is excellent, as the reduplicated vocals give an otherworldly quality to her delivery, which excels both in the gentler moments where the breathiness comes through, or as the song crescendos on the well-known 'What did you say'. 

Though Hide and Seek is incredible on it's own, the best descendant track goes to Just For Now. An incredible track on its own, for sure, but it is undeniable that I'm God by Clams Casino is a perfected version. As both this record and the song will get their own review at a point, elaborating fully would be dilatory here. What's important for my attachment here is that the exceptional quality and texture that comes from her voice and breathy delivery is absolutely a driving factor in why I'm God is one of the best songs of all time. There's an emergent description for treble among audiophiles - 'airiness'. Quality IEMs with good detail retrieval are often praised for their ability to convey this 'air' to high-pitched sounds, and for good reason. On I'm God, the natural synergy between breathy vocals, airy synths, and bright high-hats is exemplified in a truly incredible track. 

Finally, the same synergy is true on my favorite pair of songs, Headlock, and the derived headlock by vowl. On the former, her vocals over the ginormous instrumental make for a gripping listen. On the latter, the song is retooled to turn the atmosphere and euphoria up to eleven, as the fundamental elements of the original are reconstructed into one of my favorite songs. Her breathy vocals are arpeggiated and modulated and still deliver in an exceptional way. Across all three of these tracks, Imogen's exceptional vocal performances endure because of the quality, texture, and sound they lend to the songs they appear on.

Clairo, as I wrote about in my Immunity review, is probably the foundation for a lot of my modern enjoyment of this style of vocals. Though I've been into music for as long as I can remember, my modern growth into a music fan, audiophile, and critic had really just started when I fell in love with Clairo's music. This transformation in myself is primarily characterized by the addition of genres, instead of the supplanting that had occurred before. I had a huge EDM and Dubstep (read, Monstercat) phase, and then a rap phase, and those genres were basically all I listened to for a long period of time. By about 2018-19, I was moreso adding genres into my widening taste, and Clairo was where it started for what is now a huge part of my music taste and enjoyment. 

Though the seed may have been planted by Imogen Heap in the early 2010s, it was nourished by Claire Cottrill in the late 2010s, primarily with the release of Immunity. Immunity has this character to it that differentiates it from other albums for me - this warmth and vulnerability, it feels soft and gentle, and truly genuine. All of these traits are well-supported by the qualities of the vocals. To cultivate this feeling, breathy, whispered, close-mic'd vocals are present in many places throughout the record: heart-rending moments on Alewife, the wistful reflections on Bags, even on the catchy chorus of Sofia. On all of these songs, the delivery, audible air, and intimacy of the vocals contributes to the greater structure that make the record so special for me. Even in her new work, I find myself drawn to the same breathy and whispery vocals - Nomad, Slow Dance, Juna, all wonderful songs that enthrall me with this vocal quality. Ultimately, the warmth, charm, and tender feeling delivered through her whole discography is what has me coming back over and over. 

First Imogen Heap to plant the seed, Clairo to grow my enjoyment and enthusiasm, and now Gracie Abrams to become my latest obsession in this space. She consistently delivers rich, textured, whispery vocals throughout her whole discography. I really cannot get enough of her whispered vocals - which is great, as it's pretty much all she does. I love pretty much every variant of her delivery, and I hope I can elucidate why I find each one compelling. It's important to understand the mechanics of a whisper, so allow me a brief aside. A 'true whisper' is when the vocal cords are not used at all, and only air travelling over the glottis is what creates the sounds. This has no definite pitch, and it's exactly that 'unvoiced' quality that gives it the soft, airy, intimate feeling that we're used to on a whisper. Alternatively, there's a sung whisper, where there's gentle use of the vocal cords to provide pitch and melody, but the significant airflow retains the whisper-like qualities. As the balance between singing and whispering shifts, there's a wide range that allows for a whole variety of types of this whispered singing that I find so compelling. 

On her most downtrodden songs, Gracie frequently starts a word or phrase on a sung whisper, and drops into a true whisper, or vice versa. I think this is probably most easily demonstrated on Amelie, as she pulls right at the edges of a true whisper to maximize the emotional toll of the song. With a simple instrumental, her voice has to provide a huge amount to keep the song compelling, and the texture that comes through with her whispered vocals absolutely delivers. Other times, she'll hold a whisper on words or even individual syllables, which has me totally addicted. I think this is probably clearest on a couple songs. On Unsteady, Gracie, maybe by accident, delivers one of the most addictive snippets of music I've ever heard. On the bridge, starting with 'Lately, I've been staring at the ceiling', her delivery on the vocals is purely intoxicating. The texture and quality of every word, every syllable is etched into my brain and I cannot stop going back to it. Similarly, on Feels Like - simply the letter (or word) 'I' is incredible. The way she delivers 'Your phone was playing "Towers" and *I*' - that last I carries so much, and the texture and richness of her voice keeps me coming back to Feels Like over and over. 

Even when the lyrics and instrumental leave a lot to be desired, sometimes, her voice just carries. Nowhere is this clearer than on The Bottom, which was, despite its disney-channel instrumental and unironic use of "down bad", one of my top songs of 2024, because I find her voice on it to be completely addictive. The mixing has her vocals very forward, and it really clearly conveys the texture of her voice throughout the whole song, which I just love. Of course - her vocal disposition complements the themes and feeling of her songs very well - as the bolstered intimacy and vulnerability create for a cohesive and engaging atmosphere on many of her songs. That said - it's plain to see - her high-pitched, timbrally rich, breathy delivery has its hooks in my brain and my ears, and I have to be honest about that fact. 

Breathy or whispered vocals - for as much as I love them - are just one of the many, many traits that make me love these artists. Imogen Heap is talented not just as a vocalist, but arguably even more so as a producer. Clairo is charming, a great storyteller, and a wonderful live performer. Gracie uses her vocals to complement the emotional impact of her tracks alongside compelling imagery and stripped-back instrumentals. Across all of them, knowing why I love the vocals serves as a good touch point for strengthening my analysis. Ultimately, my role as a music critic is not to tear down what I don't like, nor is it to make objective claims about what the best music is. Instead, I wish to share my love for the music that I listen to - and why I love it - and hope that I can help other people discover the same qualities in songs and albums that I appreciate. By understanding my predilections and biases, I hope to be a more transparent and effective critic, one who can not only caveat albums I might 'overrate', but also one who has a solid internal understanding of my own taste. With this essay written, I gain a tool in the toolbox when it comes to analyzing the albums listed above. Moreover, I hope that this essay, and future entries in the series will help others see the highlights of my favorite music, and pick out their own favorite details, tropes, and songs. To this end, I've included a playlist that has some of my favorite songs that really exemplify the quality breathy or whispered vocals I'm talking about here! I hope that some of these tracks will spark the same journey for you that the did for me!

!SE playlist/6rW6rDQLq4OUHAdcXMpLIr?si=a3ca7c4ee892429b 352

Enjoy!