Top 10 Songs of 2025

A list of the top 10 songs of 2025.

2025 has been a great year. As the first full year where music and music criticism has been a primary focus of my life, I'm happy to have written over two dozen full-length essays across personal topics, albums, and singles. What better way to end the year than by reviewing the very best of what it had to offer? I'll discuss the structure, ascend the list starting from #10, then finally crown what I believe to be the #1 song released in 2025.

This list is limited to one song per artist, as it makes for a much more engaging list, both to write, and to read. Where relevant, I've included other songs that were close to making the list, as many of the artists who appear here have had many outstanding performances, singles, and albums this year.

### 10. kmoe - Carpet

*See also: [Thousand Yard Stare](https://open.spotify.com/track/0kE9Sx06mOikMnb7e6AtXR?si=7190c4f548f24d7e),  [Do I Keep You Up](https://open.spotify.com/track/04qjgWsa6urhAauXYWe3Qi?si=b623dcf7929f470c), [Dumpster Fire](https://open.spotify.com/track/6joVOYeKHWl5g744BuB3dg?si=7fb3307fb24f40c8)*

When I first listened to kmoe's debut album, K1, I didn't really latch onto this song. Though I liked it, I was caught up with the singles - Thousand Yard Stare, Aired out, Do I keep you up - relegating this track to a sinking spot in my library. Then I returned to K1 as a whole, beginning to appreciate the staticky soundstage, shrill, sparsely arranged melody, clearing space for the vocals. When I saw him live, opening for quannnic, my love for this song was solidified. Where the mixing felt spacious on first listen, it felt suffocating live - and that intensity has completely changed how I feel about the song. The slamming low end, searing top synth, and shaky, repeated delivery of the vocals in the midrange "How am I gonna stay on -" fill the space with just a few elements, amplifying this feeling. The song feels almost empty at times - not in a vacuous way; it's impressively hollowing - reinforcing the visceral imagery of feeling directionless: "Can't quit shaking // Let me out" and "Coughing up black shit // Hacking up a lung".  Even the small details: the crackling bass, the vibrato on his voice, with the syncopation of the percussion matching it all enrich the track. This song is inaccessible, abrasive, and honestly a bit weird - but that contributes perfectly to the unique, disorienting feeling that it offers. Listen after listen, the noisy mixing and enveloping static evokes literally being in shock, which is unbelievably compelling. Through all of this, the track is still energetic and danceable: it doesn't sacrifice an enjoyable listening experience in service of intensity or telling a story. With all of these qualities in mind - I have no doubts that Carpet is the best song on K1, and has earned its spot on this list. 
### 9. tonser - parasite

*See also: [txt me](https://open.spotify.com/track/5tjAseVYRYALXgpq3FQmL9?si=3cc315d46f6b4d82), [honor](https://open.spotify.com/track/4aGBqmWri4K1OlBSkFYAFY?si=1e15ab92a79d42d2), [scars](https://open.spotify.com/track/2TbAFb03ayGLlCApXmvlKw?si=b1a112c0ffb1430f)*

2025 has been a great year for electroclash. Between exceptional releases from The Hellp, Sion, Bassvictim and more, to its growing influence in the electropop space, to the growing popularity of essentials like 2hollis and Snow Strippers, the genre feels vibrant and healthy. One under-appreciated addition to this growing landscape is tonser, and his album wolf. Of the many great tracks there, parasite is the clear standout - it's extremely dynamic and energizing, and strikes an even balance between an aspirational pop sound and clashy instrumentation and lyrics. The beginning of the song is straightforward, with an approachable sound and structure: "So far away, can I count on you // Hoping to god I'll see you soon". As the song builds - it becomes punchier, more robust, and much more engaging. From the bouncy, rippling bass under the build - "I stained my soul // Broken Ego // Am I a fallen angel?", to the repeated builds into the eponymous "parasite" during the drop, the energy is nearly bursting at the seams. Though I try to focus on the song, rather than what's being used to play it, this song is just incredible at high volumes. The contrast between the different sections is amplified, pushing the dynamics even further, to great effect. Whether it's the sung "Wish I was standing next to you", or the frenetic delivery of "7.62, I ain't talking bout gold // Have an episode; I'm bout to unload" - it's amazing loud. Late night drives, parties, or even just alone in my living room - when I've got the chance to crank my speakers, I reach for this song first. This dynamic quality, infectious energy, and huge drop all propel this song to its spot in the top echelon of tracks this year.

### 8. Julia Wolf - You've Lost a Lot of Blood

*See also: [In My Room](https://open.spotify.com/track/79IgD1wf3xltQdDK3l5Why?si=f17362a112914342)*

I've thoroughly enjoyed Pressure since it's release, especially the standout singles of Loser, Jennifer's Body, and of course, the viral In My Room. Though that song is amazing - it's clear to me that Julia Wolf is not a one-hit wonder, and this song proves it. You've Lost A Lot of Blood is a wonderful track - beautiful, well-arranged, and a perfect fit for my taste. The compelling lyricism, gentle opening, airy and ethereal vocals, and lush guitar tone all work in seamless harmony to make not only the best song on Pressure, but one of the best songs I've heard all year. The transition from small, downtrodden guitar strums and compressed vocals to an immersive, glowing soundstage works flawlessly, focusing on the pivotal ask: "Is this who I am now?". It's a heart-rending reflection on childhood trauma; I'm particularly compelled by the lyrics "I prayed for death with a stuffed dog on my bed", followed by the barking of dogs over the guitars and echoing vocals. It's continued to grow on me throughout the year, as the song is even more fitting for autumn and winter than the early summer when it released - a fitting companion for cold mornings. Considering the amazing guitar work, gripping lyricism, and my personal love for the vocal style, it's no surprise I've kept returning to this song.

### 7. Cynthoni - Lvstlove -  Night Drive at 177mph mix

Although the Cynthoni rebrand has been somewhat controversial, or at very least met with mixed reviews, I'm certainly enjoying it. I honestly feel as if my appetite for good atmospheric DnB is nearly infinite. I am consistently compelled by the digital euphoria that emerges from the rapid percussion, airy risers, and floating melodies. That's true throughout her new body of work, but especially here. This is a thirteen minute continuous mix of Lvstlove, serving as the Newlove equivalent on the Draining Love Story remake. Although Lvstlove is good on it's own, this mix is a significant expansion, and in my opinion, improvement over the original track. Sonically, it's extremely effective. The glowing opening, wispy risers and reversed cymbals, and quintessential digital melody work seamlessly together - exactly what you'd expect from Jvne. The percussion is as rich as ever, punctuating and supporting the melodic elements on top. Despite its length, it doesn't drag on - in fact, I appreciate how this song flows, and it's perfect for entering flow state yourself. Where other songs work well feeling expansive, maximalist, or larger-than-life, this one stays in its lane, building a fluid, immersive soundscape for the listener. More than the sound, I find the overall disposition of the track to suit my taste extremely well. I have, for years, been a fan of late-night, high-speed drives accompanied by good music. Having an amazing track from one of my favorite artists catered directly to this experience really amplifies my enjoyment of this song. This song, being released in January, accompanied my entire year - from focused work to late night returns home - and I still love it just as much as I did on first listen. 

### 6. lexycat - joplin 

*See also [ash ur cigarette](https://open.spotify.com/track/5FZwWUC9zpxkYPQJKi7clN?si=51533c3786014d2d), [luxury](https://open.spotify.com/track/7qRJ5J6lh3HSYgNwKti16K?si=b7ea3c3fa0da43bb), [victim](https://open.spotify.com/track/3Qr8wh35USvFrR4jYQtT4h?si=f8984ea9a1f44080)*

As I wrote when her song 'victim' was my #6 for the year - Lexy has been on an absolute tear this year, with many exceptional singles and a great album. Honestly, this was the hardest song to place, not only due to the amazing songs from other artists, but from Lexy's competition with herself! I was really debating putting the standout single from this album - ash ur cigarette - in this spot, but joplin really does deserve it. This song is immensely impressive - from an artist known for ultra-digital, sample heavy, unserious music, this demonstrates fantastic range. From the first few seconds, it feels different: the opening thunder crash, clean guitar strums, and building ambience, all setting the tone for the song. Then, those three cymbal hits lead into the huge drop of heavy, distorted instrumentation slamming under fragmented, swirling vocal samples, a fantastic contrast that feels palpably intense. The echoing "your heart is fucking WOUNDED!" and "despair" samples against the melody continue to build the intensity into the bridge: the strumming returns, accompanied by the return of the thunder and drums. Finally - the breakdown, "I'm going to win", spoken clearly, defying the beat's descent into chaos: explosive distortion, panning gunshots, and glitching, stuttering main melody. This song is dense, overwhelming, filling every bit of space in the ears of the listener, and I just love it. From a self-described "half-angel emo girl", this is an undeniably grandiose and impressive track, well deserving of its spot on the list. 

### 5. aftrr! - Headrush

*See also: [Somebody Else](https://open.spotify.com/track/07J990sGojaZxt4nVj5dh8?si=a357dd0626014219), [Requiem](https://open.spotify.com/track/5HQUZSoR9t7avs9MmUrOxB?si=2cedb388370b4cd9)*

Do you ever feel like a song is just designed for you to enjoy it? Though I've felt that for a number of songs (even others on this list) - I don't know if it's ever been as true as it is on this song, Headrush. Since discovering aftrr earlier this year, I've been a huge fan - I adore this flavor of pop-leaning, sample-heavy, ultra-digital electroclash. On Headrush, aftrr! combines what I love about these genres to a truly uncanny degree. The production feels very 2hollis - brash synths, punchy percussion, and a sort of indelible groove that is characteristic of neo-electroclash. The first fifteen seconds would fit right in on 2, and I mean that as a wholehearted compliment. And then, of all vocal samples in the entire world, it's Risk, by Gracie Abrams. I've written at length about my adoration for her vocals, and it is deeply enjoyable for me to hear my favorite vocalist sampled in my favorite genre. Gracie's vocals over electroclash production is a fusion I had resigned myself to never getting, and yet, here it is. I love how the sample is used in this song, alternating between the sample and aftrr's vocals: "Headrush // *God, I'm* // Sun-kissed // *Deep-end*". This back-and-forth, scaffolded by claps and a riser are the perfect structure for an amazing track. And of course, the "aftrr!" tag is as good as ever. Honestly, the only way this song could be *more* fitting of my taste is if it sampled The Bottom, not Risk. All in all a wonderful song, and I truly cannot wait to hear what aftrr! cooks up next. 
### 4. Ninajirachi - Delete

On my review of this album earlier this year, I called this song "flawless from end-to-end", citing the punchy leads, radiant arpeggiated melody, and absolutely colossal drop, all coming together to make my favorite song on that album. In retrospect, flawless somehow feels like an understatement. From the in-touch lyrics, to the instrumental composition, to the arrangement and mixing, every detail just works perfectly together. And still, it is greater than the sum of its parts. When I go to write my essay on instrumental elements that feel 'astral', this is what I'll reach for as the prototypical example. The rumbling, searing bass that scaffolds the ultra-bright, radiant, swirling arpeggiated synth is the perfect example of this feeling: the elements are like the ground beneath you as you look at the stars shining above you, and its a sound signature that I just adore. The whole album makes good use of this V-shaped sound, with clear attention to detail on the resolution and imaging of the both the top and bottom end of the sound, which does not go unnoticed. Even if this song doesn't age well - we tire of EDM, the lyrics become out of touch, the instrumental is considered overdone - for now, it is perfect. I cannot imagine a better dissection of the "modern mega-digital meta mating ritual" than this.

### 3. Clara Kimera - Angel Candles

Often, my picks for the top songs of the year are not among my most listened. Where the top songs list favors songs that feel viscerally engaging, colossal in form or function, or emotionally gripping, my wrapped features songs scored only by their replayability. angel candles somehow fits on both lists, appearing at the #2 and #3 spot respectively. It is immensely impressive to strike this balance - maintaining easy listening while holding up to close listening. As I wrote on the wrapped review, this track is haunting and ethereal, rarely qualities ascribed to a song you'd listen to on loop for hours. I'm obsessed with the rapid, bleeping triplet of the melody under the eponymous "angel candles", and the way the instrumental bends, accelerates, and pulses to fit the vocals is amazing. This keeps the listener focused on the synergy between the elements of the song, and perfectly balances the atmospheric elements with easy listening. Even after literally three hundred repeats, I'm still coming to appreciate new details, most recently in the bridge before the final chorus. The way the drums drop out as she says "I'll do it again", serve as the perfect drop into the chorus, and the function of 'do it again' not only contributes to the narrative, but also structurally to the repetition of the chorus. I adore this song, and it is a privilege, rather than a burden, to write about it twice across these two lists. 
### 2. Jane Remover - Experimental Skin

*See also: [Dancing with your eyes closed](https://open.spotify.com/track/1QkeomwCeKgXOEWoMHzrXr?si=419630a2489e463f), [angels in camo](https://open.spotify.com/track/7a4dV5aM4pHsTdOkqIVK8l?si=1dc7616fe1684338), and honestly the rest of Revengeseekerz. If this was purely by score, Jane would have at least three songs on this list.*

Throughout this list, I've praised songs for being dynamic, explosive, and energetic. There is no song that fits those qualities better than this one. Experimental Skin is the best song on Jane Remover's latest album - [Revengeseekerz](https://www.mwaterman.dev/music/Jane%20Remover%20-%20Revengeseekerz.md), and I think it's the most energizing song I have ever heard. From hyperpop, to noise rock, to the unbelievable rage fusion album to which this song belongs, Jane's winstreak never ends. She says it herself - "Bitches don't know what to call it // I'm like 3 and 0" - and I think that's proven by the nearly incomprehensible density of this track. Once the introductory noise pulls back, leaving space in the mix for the layers to separate, the composition and arrangement become truly transcendent. She blends deep sub-bass, heavy guitar strums at the low-end, her vocals at the mids, and my ever-beloved arpeggiated digital synth to accompany the high-hats at the top of the range. Though a mix this packed seems like it would be nearly unlistenable, Jane has instead delivered an impossibly engaging track. The energy that radiates from this song is immense - "I'm a shapeshifter // I'm a new kind of bitch: off-kilter", delivered over vocal chops and percussion that stutters like a machine gun. As the final chorus builds - "I think that I've been falling for you // You don't even know what you do to me" - this song peaks higher than almost any other. It is eponymously explosive: the repeated, chopped "I wanna sin, blow the city up" over the four-on-the-floor drop that caps off the best section of music I've heard all year. Through drawing on all her past work - pop danceability, dariacore sample work, gazey guitars - Jane has delivered a masterpiece. And I don't think she's stopping at 3 and 0. 

### 1. By Storm - Double Trio 2

*See also: [In My Town](https://open.spotify.com/track/02d0eSjcUsP9Lcubb7QUHJ?si=1828881726e940a0)*

By Storm is the new name of the surviving members of Injury Reserve, following the tragic loss of Groggs. I cannot imagine the weight of the grief, finding a way to mourn your friend, bandmate, and key member of the trio around which you have built your artistic career. Despite this - they have chosen to continue creatively, and in doing so have produced one of the most gripping songs I have ever heard. Though I'm unsure if the "post-rap" genre label will stick, if there's any song that fits it - it's this one. Innovating upon the jazz influences of the last decade of abstract hip-hop, this song is packed with colossal brass horns, haunting and shrill instrumentation, and echoing, expansive vocals that build a truly epic soundscape. The motif of being caught by storm - a metaphorical monsoon of grief - but managing to wade through the ensuing flood anyways is deeply compelling. The lyrics pull at this idea - "We was caught by storm, but we ain't even know it // To you this shit knee-high" - is immense, overcoming the deluge even if it's trudging through water up to your knees, your chest, your shoulders. The song comes to a head with  "Can't build it back how we need - this shit's for you, it's for me // It's for all of us" followed by the glitching vocal run, chaotic horns, stuttering bass, and nearly overwhelming arrangement that's much greater than the sum of its parts. The instrumental takes the role of the storm, with the fragmented verses and brass instrumentation battering the listener, nearly to the point of breaking. Though this song was in my Top 100 this year - it very well might have been my most skipped, simply due to its intensity. I vividly recall multiple times where I skipped this song as I didn't want to be moved to tears at the grocery store or in the office. It is, by all metrics, an incredible track - viscerally moving, technically impressive, beautiful and haunting, and an impressive display of musicianship in the face of loss. It is, undoubtedly, the best song I've heard all year. 

### Conclusion 

With that, the list is complete. In retrospect, it really has been an amazing year. As promised - here's the list of all the candidates, of course sorted by list order at the top. Regardless of how you feel about the genres here (electroclash, atmospheric DnB, melodic EDM, even "post rap"), I hope you'll give it a try. Some of these songs are so good, they just might transcend the genre boundaries for you. Happy listening, and I hope to see you again next year!

!SE playlist/3TTYfG7k4Eb9GUMhHDNT5w?si=19e2c96a4f294181 450